hello
hello how you doing my camera's a little
off
let me actually i mean my camera go up a
little bit here so ladies and gentlemen
hello and how you doing
today is thursday october 8th 2020
i'm darkseid phil and i welcome you to
ask the king this
is the first episode of ask the king
that i've done in over three months
because
i've been so busy with game releases
over the summer because this year has
been such a different kind of year
for gaming with the covet pandemic
screwing all the game release schedule
up typically the summer is so slow
but this summer was really chock full of
new releases i mean ghost of sushima
took us
you know almost a month to beat uh we
had ongoing playthroughs that just took
forever
so because of that i really didn't have
time no no downtime to really do the
show
normally it would have been kind of in
september but i deleted a few weeks so
here we are in early october and i
finally decided to get around to it now
again we're going to have this
discussion do you guys
out there feel that ask the king should
still be an ongoing show
the reason i have to pose this question
is because we talk every day on stream
every single day there's a pre-stream we
have discussions during the live streams
of game play
we have this kind of a deal every day
and some people have even expressed
their opinion they're like
you know phil you got a 20 patron perk
where if people pledge 20 bucks they get
their question answered on ask the king
but don't they do that every day on
stream and the answer is
well yeah people ask me questions every
day on stream there's no guarantee that
i'm going to give them a lengthy answer
to anything though
when you pledge to my patreon on ask the
king i will give you a huge
answer to your question dedicated
segment of time on a show
dedicated just for answering questions
but that being said
this year i think i've had two questions
asked by patrons this this this
show none so i definitely think that
this
this format okay
this format for ask the king it's not
necessarily
uh it's not mandatory anymore
but i'm okay with doing it i'm okay by
with continuing this show i realize that
asta king is one of my longest running
shows in history
this is episode i think 84 83 or 84
of the show and that's crazy this has
been running since what like 2010
2011 almost a decade if not a decade at
this point
so i understand that there are people
who've been around for a long time who
love the pro the idea of the show the
fact that i've got a legacy show for my
old content days
that i still do in the modern era all
right i get that
but ideally does it make sense to do the
show i don't know
someone proposed to me this week instead
of doing it like this format where i
just answer your questions in a
dedicated video or stream
then instead i do it as a segment every
couple of months when i do a special
marathon event so for example i just did
a rage-a-thon
this month i'm doing a halloween
marathon maybe i could take an
hour out of those marathons to answer
your questions
maybe i don't know i need your feedback
by all means
feel free to give me your feedback do
you think ask the king is something that
has an essential purpose and should
continue to happen moving forward
or do you feel the show is outdated i'll
be honest with everyone
getting people to ask questions for the
show can be like pulling teeth sometimes
um there was a rush of questions asked
last minute
because i asked people to post up
questions last minute for it because
almost no one had
and i did my best as usual to pick the
most entertaining questions or questions
that i felt would make a good show for
you guys
we'll see how it turns out today this
may be a shorter show depending on my
answers or whatever
we'll have to see what happens okay so
let's see let's give give me your
feedback as always the way the show goes
is number one i ask i answer questions
from my forums
then i answer questions for people who
tweeted me today over at they call me
dibs they call me dsp on twitter and
then at the end of the show if there's
time i take questions live from the
stream chat now
if you guys contribute during the stream
i am going to do a live shout out
during the show but if you're posing a
question in that contribution
i may save that question for the end
segment of the show where we answer
questions from live viewers so we'll see
what happens with that as well maybe i
have time to interject it but i'm going
to be focusing
primarily on these questions now this
stream is just like a normal stream
by all means guys if you want to help
out please contribute the best ways
right here
sending me a tip right down there i need
the help this week because i got a
ridiculous amount of charge backs this
week
which completely screwed me over if
you're watching the show live on demand
on youtube not live
please if you like the show please
consider supporting it with a tip i need
to help this week
if i can get through this week i should
be all right but it sucks that i just
had so many chargebacks in one week and
hopefully now i put these protections in
place
that people should not be able to be
doing these anonymous uh
express checkout tips anymore that are
fake
so hopefully moving forward i can trust
the tips to be real
we'll find out all right but for now
let's see what happens okay all right
let's get started
with ask the kane we start off with
forum questions as i said now normally i
would be
patron questions they haven't been
patreon questions in a long time so
we're just going to start
with a question from jeff bezos wright
nut
and he asked a question that for some
people might think is personal or
insulting i don't actually feel
personal insulting because the guy asked
in a very respectful manner so i'm going
to answer the question in a very
respectful manner
okay he says if you ever start going
bald
would you rather shave it all off or
deal with a bald spot and proceeding
hairline
or maybe try one of those hair growth
treatments okay
first off i am losing some of my hair
and i know i am as i get older i'm 38
years old and i realize that as i get
older this is going to happen if you
take a look at my hairline
it's not even right here this side i'm
losing way more hair than this side now
actually i've noticed on this side it's
actually started to lose a little bit
recently too
so i'm going to turn it to vegeta
essentially i'm going to have this
[ __ ] weird hairline here and then the
hair is going to start going up like
this
it's going to look really weird okay in
addition
the back of my head i have a patch right
here that's had lighter hair like
forever like even
when i was young i was told at the back
of my head i had a patch of hair right
here that actually had less hair than
the rest of my head
now the thing is i got a crew cut from
the late high school days
all the way through until 2010 and in
2010 i decided to grow my hair out
and have it long like this for the last
decade so
it wasn't until then that i realized
that i actually had that lighter patch
of hair back here again
okay there's nothing much i could do
about this you get older this [ __ ]
happens your hairline will recede you'll
have
less hair what am i gonna do ultimately
i don't care
i'm being honest here ultimately i don't
give two shits
i don't if i go back to a crew cut i go
back to a crew cut if i go bald i go
bald
if i actually try to make the hair grow
evenly again through hair treatments
which they have
maybe i'll do that i don't care i really
don't give two shits
it's really about my wife my wife is the
person who has to see me all day long
my wife is the person who cares about
how i look so if she says oh
try to fix the hair i will if she says
leave it be i will
if she says shave it off i will i don't
care it's just like people ask me about
my beard they say phil your beard's all
patchy like
actually my beard isn't patchy and my
beard is growing at the same rate it was
10 years ago when i first started
growing it but most of my beard hairs
are now white
and you guys on camera see how white
this looks but it looks oh it's patchy
it's actually not this is all white hair
so on the camera it catches in a way
that makes it look almost transparent
but it's really just all white hairs do
i need to dye the hairs
black no i don't care i don't [ __ ]
care
i i don't give two shits but if my wife
says oh i don't like how that looks
diet i will or she says ah you know what
it's not really working anymore because
it's all white
shave it off i will it's really up to
her not up to me she's the one who has
to see it all day every day not me
so it's her call as of right now
everything seems to be all right and no
one's really saying anything
you know what i mean like she doesn't
really care so i'll leave it as is until
one day she makes a decision and she
says i like this or like that then i
would do it
i don't care i'm you know i've always
been like i don't give a [ __ ]
it's like the least important thing to
me when i wake up in the morning i just
don't care you know who
it's not a big deal and it's funny
because the last few years as you know
is i become a full-time streamer
and i now need to have a webcam on
constantly oh i gotta wake up i gotta
brush my hair for streaming
before then i didn't at all i would come
to stream with [ __ ] hair going wild
and [ __ ]
i didn't care i'm just a normal dude
right i don't care about that [ __ ]
you're certainly never gonna be able to
accuse me of being a metrosexual
all right okay next question
from 100 guests now this is a question
i've been asked over the years
i'll i'll answer it again um in the best
way that i can
all right he says if you were to
instantly be granted 100 million dollars
today
when no strings attached how would you
spend it presumably you'd fix your tax
situation after that what would you do
would you continue streaming in
streamlist often i often find it fun to
daydream about the scenario
well if i were to make a hundred million
dollars no strings attached that would
mean no taxes or maybe post tax or
whatever
a hundred million dollars is insane
amount of money it's way more than
anyone would ever need to live seriously
it is
it's just exorbitant amounts of money so
i can tell you right now
yes obviously the first thing i would do
any debt any existing debt that i have
pay off my back taxes
pay off this house pay off my car i
would ask my parents what debts do you
have
obviously my wife pay off any debts that
she has paid all debts
with my myself and my family member
direct family members would be
immediately paid off that's number one
number two i would
likely donate a lot of it because once
everything's paid off and i see how much
i
actually have i'd probably look at it
and say okay i have this much money
i really don't need that much money 100
million is a ridiculous amount of money
so i would probably just go ahead and
donate a bunch of it now where would i
donate it
i don't know because when you have that
much money you actually can make a big
impact to something a ginormous
positive impact so i would want to
actually look into
you know charities and things find one
that's legit find one that i feel
uh would be super beneficial for me to
contribute to and i would probably do
a big you know or maybe multiple
contributions split it up and do a
concretion here there and help a bunch
of charities or whatever
okay now in addition to that
um what i would do is invest and what i
mean by that
is i would try to diversify even though
i love being a streamer and i've said
this
a million times if i won the lottery
today i would still stream
would i stream in the capacity i do now
six days a week full time
no i would probably stream three four
times a week
way more casual time frame it wouldn't
be super strict
having the stream you know four hours of
gameplay one stream two three hours
i probably would be laid back and relax
play way less games
but i love doing this i love having the
interactions we have i tell you right
now i'd immediately turn off all
contributions you guys would not be able
to contribute crowdfunding whatsoever
because i wouldn't need the money
i would tell you guys go donate to a
cause or do this or that and do
something worthwhile with your money
then donate to me
okay and then of course i would invest
like i said i would probably have some
kind of savings but in addition to that
i would invest maybe i would buy
something like i've talked about buy
some franchises
have some businesses out here in my name
that's a different way to make money
besides just streaming
um maybe maybe if you finally do that
restaurant that i've been talking about
for how many years now do my own
restaurant
where i can have this cool thing that's
not online
related a real brick-and-mortar business
that i can sink and vest into maybe
become a staple out here because there
are almost no good italian restaurants
out here
there's one that's kind of crappy it's
like a fusion restaurant that's not good
there's one that's pretty good but bad
location in my opinion
and there's one that's americanized
italian food that's not really authentic
it's still good but it's not authentic
i could do like an authentic italian
restaurant i would probably want to do
something like that
um so anyway that's the bottom line i
would number one pay off all existing
debts for myself and all my my family
members
number two i would probably donate a ton
of money
and number three i would probably have a
savings and invest a bunch of money into
things outside
of streaming so that way i've
diversified my
my assets okay fair enough
okay um chloe asks i was wondering if
you not pursued a career with youtube or
twitch is there any career path you
would have chosen and why
the thing is chloe my life's been
chaotic
my life was not pre-planned i'm not one
of those people who like when i was
growing up i said i absolutely want to
do this for a living no matter what and
i'm going to do everything i can to live
up to that goal
whether it's years of schooling and you
know internships or whatever
i didn't know what i wanted to do with
my life i was the valedictorian of my
high school
but i wasn't accepted to any of like the
big name colleges despite the fact that
i had a straight a record
extracurriculars why because i was white
and i didn't have money
so if you're white and you don't have
money to actually outright pay
to go to one of those top colleges in
the united states you don't get accepted
it's that simple if you're gonna need
financial aid you don't get accepted to
those colleges
so because i didn't know someone at
those colleges to get my foot in the
door
i had to go to decent colleges i mean i
went to fairfield university
it's known as a pretty good college um
but i didn't have any
uh let me put it this way i didn't have
any way to get
networking so that i could get a job out
of college i started off college i
wanted to do a computer science major
because that was the 90s was the big
heightened tech stuff that was when when
the websites were exploding internet
businesses were exploding
and then when i was in college literally
the tech bubble burst
and all the jobs vanished in the job
market for computer science in addition
the teachers they had there
for computer science were absolutely god
awful and couldn't teach to save their
lives they were really good coders
but they couldn't actually relay that
knowledge of how to actually code
to the students i came in with no
knowledge of computer coding at all
and the guy couldn't teach me basic [ __ ]
meanwhile kids who were coming in who
had previous years of experience were
telling me yeah
you needed to come into this school with
previous experience because he hasn't
explained any base level [ __ ] he just
expects you know everything which is
[ __ ]
i'm going to college to learn computer
programming why do i already need to
know computer programming
dumb [ __ ] right so i changed my major in
college from computer programming
over to business and then eventually a
major in finance
unbeknownst to me all right
to really get a job in finance you
needed to know someone just like to get
into a good college
you needed to know someone to get into a
job in finance so here i am working in
college
all right and i'm busting my ass
just to make ends meet i'm working a
full-time job
during college to pay for college so i
have no free time
all day every day i'm either working or
i'm in class
and then weekends maybe i get one day a
week where i get to actually go like
play street fighter or go to a
tournament or something right which was
my hobby that was my life during my four
college years i didn't have
tons of free time to spend with friends
or anything i was working my ass off
so how was i supposed to then get
experience
or get networking skills so i could get
a job when i graduated from college
maybe if i was filthy rich right and i
didn't have to work during college i
would have had tons of free time and i
could have done internships and all
kinds of [ __ ]
i wasn't given that opportunity so when
i graduated from college
no one would hire me for a finance job
so i ended up working at a company that
i thought was a finance job but it
wasn't it was predatory lending
lending mortgages and credit cards to
families with horrible credit scores
who don't know how to manage their
finances and basically giving them
insanely
high loan to value loans imagine
you already are terrible with money and
a company
latches on to that and gives you a 95
loan to value loan on your home what
that means is that let's say your home's
worth a hundred thousand dollars
they would give you a loan for 95 000
against your house
you have no equity nothing you own
nothing essentially
okay that's what we were doing it was
predatory lending in the hopes they
would default and we would steal a house
that's what my company was that i was
working for so after working for them
for a year and having issues with that i
want to work for best buy
best buy for business i've told that
story a million times right
how they hired me to be someone who
knows technology and is going to sell
technology to small business owners
but they didn't actually follow through
and within eight months of working there
they were trying to get rid of the whole
program
and they framed me and fired me lying to
get me out of the company so that i
wouldn't be paid anymore
they'll be money that they were
basically paying me way more than the
line level person in the store
for a team that was a failure so that
didn't work out
then i went to work for a helicopter
company all right which my dad currently
was working at at the time
i get in as a customer service rep and
within two years they recognize that
they want me to do more than just being
a customer service rep because
i'm a leader in the company and i go
above and beyond so they put me into
continuous improvement work
which means that they're training me to
do this process by which i look at a
company how they work from start
to finish and i look at a certain
process that that company does that
basically they feel needs improvement
maybe it's too slow it's not profitable
enough there's bottlenecks and hold ups
and i would map out that process finding
the points that need improvement
bring in the employees who do those
processes redesign those processes from
the ground up
improve them roll out the changes and
now measure with metrics
the improvements to the business this is
what i was trained to do and i did it
for two years
and after completely redesigning the
repairs process of this helicopter
company from start to finish
and actually not only improving it but
making them get more money for it
they laid me off they never paid me for
it they paid me as a customer service
rep
for four years but had me for two of
those years doing continuous improvement
work never paid me a dollar to [ __ ]
do it
and then lead me off after the fact
that's my employment history like you
see what i mean with that
history how could i ever have planned on
wanting to do something with my life
my life is being chaotic going from job
to job being mistreated every job being
treated like a
a a piece of data on a spreadsheet
rather than a human every major company
i've ever worked for mistreated me
so how could i possibly say i had a road
map of what i wanted to do if i wasn't a
youtube streamer or content creator
i never wanted to be a youtube streamer
content creator this fell into my lap
as something to do when i was laid off
from my job at the helicopter company
um i would have loved to be a person
who had a road map and this was a stable
road map of something that i could have
done my whole life
and i would have never had the chaotic
uncertainty that i had for my whole life
it just never happened in fact as crazy
as it sounds
all right as crazy as it sounds this
job that i'm doing now is the most
stable job i've ever had in my life
what yes even with youtube falling apart
the destruction of my youtube channels
the adpocalypse
all the fake [ __ ] that happens to me on
a daily basis like false dmca claims
slander about me all over the internet
all the [ __ ] that affects me
daily chargebacks all that stress and
nonsense
this job is still the most consistent
and stable job i've ever had
in my entire [ __ ] life i've been
doing this for 10 years
right i've been doing this for 10 years
10 years i've never done another job in
my life for 10 years
even though this job has evolved for
sure right
first i was just doing videos offline
[ __ ] around then i did co-op videos
with people then i started branching out
and doing other other things like
reviews
of food reviews of games um commentary
videos
uh on other things outside of gameplay
uh then i did like something creative
like project seven
then i got into the direct capture live
streaming stick um
for three and a half years now i've been
a full-time live streamer and i put out
way different content than i used to yes
i'm evolving i'm still doing the same
thing i'm my own boss i'm putting out
gameplay and entertaining content for
you guys on a daily basis
and this has been the most consistent
thing i've ever done in my life
it's crazy because i played that game i
went through high school and college
intending to get a job and just have
that be my career i played by the rules
what my parents wanted me to do and
everyone told me this is what you should
do in america
to become successful and i was
mistreated i was dumped
fired laid off and treated like [ __ ]
everywhere i went
they just didn't care about anyone who
actually wanted to work hard they wanted
someone who was basically a pushover or
a kiss ass
and i'm never you know guys know me i've
never been one of those things in my
whole life it's one of the reasons why
you won't see me getting the xbox series
x advanced console preview because no
one's going to send me that [ __ ]
because i'm not going to kiss
microsoft's [ __ ] ass you know i don't
do that [ __ ]
i'm an honest guy i have been my whole
life so
no um chloe i never really i couldn't
tell you
what career could i have pursued if i
didn't do youtube or twitch i don't know
i would have i would have been happy if
when i was at that helicopter company
if they had actually come through with
their promises it's after two years of
doing work above and beyond what i was
expected to do as a customer service rep
if i was actually treated nicely and i
was given a job as continuous
improvement
and i would love to do that work i
actually enjoyed that work when i did it
and i actually
really liked seeing how the hard work
that i put in improved a business
overall and made them more profitable
right but then the company decided that
oh we don't give a [ __ ] that he did that
and dumped me like i said within
within a two-month period the repairs
process was
improved they started immediately seeing
improvement in turn times and
profitability of that program
they gave me a reward award it was
above and beyond the call of duty award
big document they gave me no money
involved but just an award there was a
presentation for
and everything congratulations phil for
going above and beyond and and
redesigning our repairs process
and then in two months they shifted me
to another department said we have no
work for you and laid me off
so that's what i mean i would have loved
to keep doing that
but that's how they treated me you know
um it is what it is i guess that's
that's american
corporate culture they don't give two
[ __ ] about the employees it's rare in
america
where you find a company that actually
cares about its employees
and will treat them properly and to them
you're just a number on a spreadsheet
you're just
a cog in a big wheel a big machine you
know what i mean
um and they will dispose of you whenever
they feel like it you did the good work
for us now get the [ __ ] out
they did the same thing with my dad my
dad was busting his ass doing
continuous improvement work for them and
they laid him off too so
it is what it is um all right continuing
on
eternal napalm says what are some of the
best game soundtracks you've ever heard
which ones resonated with you beyond
your time playing the game for me i'm a
child of the 80s and 90s
right so when i think classic game
soundtracks super mario brothers
those that music is gonna stick with my
head forever of course
um zelda for me legend of zelda link to
the past
because i that was my first major zelda
game that i played from start to finish
and i played it a billion times because
i loved it so much so that music of
course the soundtrack of street fighter
2 is the soundtrack i've heard most of
my life seriously like
i've played more of any video game it's
been street fighter 2 more than any
other game
and i've heard that soundtrack more than
any other game in history so street
fighter 2 has to be up there
of course then i have to go with the
classic rpgs that i grew up with like
final fantasy 4 and 6
chrono trigger those you know those
soundtracks are so like stick
every time i hear those music i get
pumped i get excited because i
feel like back to my childhood sitting
around playing fun jrpgs you know
so that would be my music now of course
there's been amazing games with amazing
soundtracks the first mass effect comes
to mind
blue dragon comes to mind um
you know games like that i can say wow
those are soundtracks that'll stand out
forever or whatever the uncharted thing
the title theme from uncharted is so
amazing
but for me when you ask me about music
and games i'm always going to go back to
those classics that i grew up with
okay all right let's shift over
and let's actually do a few cheers and
then we'll shift back to the forum
questions
so blah bhc typed in 101 bit cheer
biggest cheer of the day so far says i
don't know about ask the king but i
asked fans to vote for barry burton and
corpse killer 25th anniversary edition
for on the king hate forums make
halloween marathon great again
he's that's it he really wants me to be
barry burton for halloween and he really
wants to see me play corpse killer
during the halloween
event you can do both of those things
for example you can nominate games for
that the halloween event by typing
exclamation point marathon in the stream
chat right now you can vote for the
costume by taking typing exclamation
point
costume
cheers and thank you for the cheer sir
morningstar 2126 just did a 200 [ __ ]
here
and said me and my friend have been
watching your content since 2012 i
discovered your channel of course dude
this is how you don't play videos which
let's us watching your real videos yeah
and that's perfectly fine there was one
point many many years ago where i was an
idiot
and i thought that that stuff was bad in
my opinion
um i don't care if you make fun of my
gameplay at all i just don't give a [ __ ]
i really don't um i don't think that
it's malicious
to the point where it hurts me for
someone to watch a montage of my content
on someone else's channel
a lot of people have told me over the
years they saw those cop those
compilations and then they actually come
over to the streams of the videos and
then they like the stuff and they
they watch live here's an example
morning star just cheered thank you for
the support morningstar
all right where i think it goes too far
is obviously the people who are seeing
personal insults conspiracy theories and
just wild nonsense about me that has
nothing to do with my content that i put
out on stream
but we won't go there all right so thank
you morning star for the cheer
sweaty man jpeg did 100 as a
professional software engineer for 10
years i'll confirm you have to have some
knowledge of coding to succeed in
computer science programs
you need to have the mindset of a person
who experiments with technology tries
things and breaks them then fixes them
right
i went into college with the the
being explained to that we have
entry-level computer science programs
here
where you don't need to have any
prerequisite knowledge of computer
science you could just come and i mean
it was supposed to be comp psi 101 like
the first
intro class intro to computer science
and he's teaching things that are
advanced computer science
and you need to have prerequisite
knowledge and i'm like what am i even
paying for school for if i have to go
learn coding before i take the intro
course to coding
then why am i going to college what am i
paying for i'm wasting
my own money and time because this
[ __ ] is so stupid he's teaching
advanced [ __ ] in the intro course
archangel double 007 resubscribed for
two months in a row 30 total he said my
longest relationship lasted only 26
months well
it looks like your sub lasted longer
than that so thank you very much sir i
appreciate that
thanks a lot for the support all right
let's go
let's continue pw dubs had two different
questions that i chose he actually asked
a ton
but i chose two particular questions
that i felt were pretty pertinent
on to today's show so this first
question is do you think games that are
released at the beginning of the year
are easily forgotten about and
overshadowed by other releases
for example one of my favorite games of
this year has been dragon ball z kakarot
and i feel that it is being forgotten
about do the likes of games like last of
us two and ghost of sushima
yes this happens all the time
games that come out within the first two
to three months of the year almost
always get forgotten by the end of the
year it's silly in my opinion
there have been years like for example i
remember when resident evil 5 came out
now admittedly resident evil 5 was not
perfect and had flaws but it was a great
game
and by the end of the year like no one
was having it in their best of the year
countdowns and i'm like
what it was an outstanding game it
really was but it came out early in the
year and people forgot about it
resident evil 7 came out in january
again by the end of the year it's like
people don't remember january
now this year in particular is going to
be a weird one we had the pandemic
right uh you know yes i remember dragon
ball z caprara came out what was it like
february
but i couldn't even tell you three games
that came out from january to march all
i could tell you was like
once the rush of games started coming
out in the summer
then i remember like i remember last of
us two ghost of sushima i can't really
remember any games like i guess do
maternal right was it april
but outside of that i couldn't even tell
you
this year has been so screwed up time
wise for releases
that i would almost guarantee you by the
end of the year we will not remember
half the games that we played the first
half of the year
um the other thing that's really weird
to me you got the game of the year
awards right and even though we all
agree they're not official it's nice
that jeff keeley every year sits down
with always
people from all different walks of
gaming
life you got people who are game devs
you got people who are people who are in
the media
and they sit down they vote on the best
games of the year
they never allow games that come out in
december to be part of the game awards
you ever noticed that
the game awards there's some games that
some years have come out in december
that are great
and they never even consider them as
like game of the year contender and it
blows my mind because it's like just
because it came out
a couple weeks before your award show
doesn't mean it didn't come out in 2020
and doesn't mean it should be forgotten
but that always tends to happen so
anyway
yeah it's definitely a thing okay um now
pww that's another question do you find
it hard to balance playing games
interacting with chat sometimes
i don't have that complaint but i have
seen other chat members complain my
opinion of this is that it's stressful
enough
having the live stream games and
interacting with every message is
impossible
very true listen i've been doing this
interactive style live streaming now for
three and a half years
okay and what i can tell you is
definitely has its pitfalls but it has
its very positive moments as well
there have been really awesome times
when i'm playing a game and you guys
give me either a piece of aid that
allows me to do something in the game
that normally i never would be able to
do
or you add something to the lore of a
game that i don't understand because
it's not apparently clear from what's
going on in the game just from the game
itself
i'm like wow really that's a revelation
and that actually makes the enjoyment
even better
i love seeing your live reactions to
what i'm doing when something happens in
the game i get to see a laugh at it live
or you know what i mean
that's really cool that's really neat
and the interaction that we have
having conversations during games that
otherwise maybe wouldn't be the most
riveting
minecraft morrowind animal crossing just
a few that come to mind from this year
these are play-throughs that never would
have worked
and with my old style of gameplay they
worked now because of the interactive
streams
okay at the very same time
you gotta understand that
there's no way that i can interact with
every person on a stream
there may be people who absolutely want
a certain question answered or
absolutely want to talk to me about a
certain topic
and it's just not going to happen i'm
streaming right now probably i don't
know because i don't look at viewer
account i would guarantee there's
probably about 300 people on the stream
right now
roughly i'm just guessing estimating i
can't interact with every one of those
if every person had a question how do i
answer 300 questions right right now we
got a stream chat that's running
and i glance at it every once in a while
it's very hard for me
to scan everyone's comment and see if
someone's trying to talk to me or have a
question
if you tag me in the stream chat i'll
see it at a higher capacity obviously if
you contribute via cheering subbing or
tipping
those contributions gets put into a
separate queue that i look at here it's
my stream labs queue
and that queue i actually read directly
because i want to give shout outs for
contributions so that gives an increased
chance that i can see what you're saying
but there's no guarantee and the other
thing is this
some people don't realize that sometimes
when i'm doing a certain type of stream
i don't want to derail the stream for
example i'm playing super mario galaxy
we're in the middle of a difficult
purple star run trying to get all the
purple stars on a stage
someone tags me 10 times in the stream
chat
trying to ask me a question that has
absolutely nothing to do with anything
we're doing today chances are i'm going
to ignore it
that just keeps the stream flowing if i
completely say okay
hold on pause and i put down the
controller
now i'm going to sit here and do a 10
minute answer to your question
before i pick the controller back up
that's derailment of the stream
there's a time and a place for that the
pre-stream is the right place for giant
lengthy questions where you want
an elaborate answer ask the king is the
perfect opportunity for that
during a random gameplay session is not
if i'm playing a chill game
where the gameplay isn't so riveting or
time consuming or attention grabbing
that yeah we could take time out to do a
question like that that's different
but in general if i'm doing an
action-packed stream a game that's very
difficult or needs challenge or needs a
lot of attention
i'm not going to answer every question
you see and so what happens is
sometimes people will come here and
they'll want to get they'll have an
agenda i have a question i need answered
by phil today
and then they get upset because i'm not
paying attention to it you know
um the other thing is sometimes you'll
get a troll tip you'll get a troll cheer
and that's something that maybe is
insulting to me or my family or
it's a detractor meme that i know i
don't want to acknowledge on the stream
and then people somehow say oh see
phil's ignoring people he doesn't pay
attention to his fans
no i know what i'm doing i've been doing
this for three and a half years now and
i feel that
you know i'm getting better at i'm
certainly not perfect at it but i'm
getting better at it
and i'm getting better at juggling those
kind of situations trying not to take
bait
uh when people are trying to bait me
into stupid conversations or certain
topics that are controversial
trying not to just let people bring up
the tractor memes constantly that are
gonna derail the stream you know
i'm doing my best again i'm not flawless
and i'm trying to do better i am try
every day when i do a stream i try to
improve and i try to do better in some
way
i hope you guys understand that i know
that i'm not perfect and i'm trying to
improve but
you know it's hard there's people who
want interaction and i can't give every
single person the interaction that they
crave when there's hundreds of people on
a stream it's just not possible
however what i would like to say is i
feel that my streams are at a good level
that when people do really want
interaction they get it if you really
need my attention you got a question you
want answered you could contribute
via a method that'll put that into my
cue it's streamlabs and you know i'm
gonna probably address it right
so at least i haven't grown to the point
where it's just uncontrollable
people are constantly just and there's
just so much
white noise that there's no way i could
even pull out a question to answer you
know what i mean
it is manageable and i'm happy about
that i'm happy that i have this personal
interactions with you guys i feel like i
have uh uh
we have a go a back and forth versus
it's not just me talking out to an abyss
of a bajillion thousand people out there
watching
you know i honestly don't know if i were
someone who was a big streamer
like these doctor disrespects and ninjas
i don't know if i would like that i
think i might actually hate it i might
hate my job
because not being able to have that
personal interaction kind of sucks
being honest here that's part of the big
enjoyment that i get out of every day
having a real conversation with some of
you and if i couldn't do that i don't
know if i would really enjoy my job
so maybe i maybe things happen for a
reason
maybe the fact that i didn't become a
[ __ ] screamer at horror games 10 years
ago
the fact that i didn't adopt every viral
popular thing that people did on youtube
maybe
it all happened for a reason so that i
could get to where i am today and
actually have what i consider meaningful
streams i don't know
who knows all right let's continue on
derek had a question and he asked the
following back in the last decade and
the early 2010s
how did you manage to juggle playing so
many video game releases that came out
on release day
was it that you really wanted to play
all those games and you were interested
in all of them you want to be the first
person to check them out and get that
footage up on youtube
or did it have something to do with your
gaming schedule calendar like how did
you discern
what games you wanted to play and how
did you handle juggling so many games
derek is correct back when i used to be
exclusively a youtuber not a live
streamer i was not doing direct capture
and i was not live streaming at all i
played more games
if you actually go back to that period
you look at the amount of footage i was
putting out
of course you could argue well it's way
more videos because i was only doing 10
minute long videos back then that's fair
enough
but if you just look at the sheer number
of gameplay the amount of gameplay more
than what i was doing right now
okay being honest um some days i would
start playing in the early afternoon
and i would play till eight at night
take a break to eat come back and play
for another three four hours so you're
talking
what that's like 12 hours of gameplay in
a day i don't do nearly that now now i
had what do i do at most six
right i mean the exception would have
been the rage-a-thon where i was
actually streaming for 12 hours
but you know the thing is
it was a very very different world back
then 10 years ago
youtube was a very different place than
it is today the whole gaming culture was
different than it is today back then
there was no advanced copies that went
out to content creators or
influencers all right it was everyone
was the same you had to line up
at gamestop or whatever your respective
game store was
to get the game just like everyone else
you would get at the same time as
everyone else midnight releases many of
them intended to get the game as early
as possible
and then it would be a mad dash to get
home and be the first person to play
that game and get footage of it out on
youtube
because that was the business back then
okay who can get the playthrough up
first
that was a big thing and there were some
people who would actually break the
rules and steal games i'm serious there
was one particular youtuber who i hated
i don't know if he's still around today
but he was infamously known as a guy who
had contacts with steel games
behind the scenes he was someone who
worked for gamestop or worked for best
buy
and they would provide the games to him
a week early and he would play them on
youtube a week early and sometimes he'd
get content
copyright issues because of that because
he was basically scumbag he was breaking
the law
so he could get the games early and get
all the views but
i was just like you guys i would line up
in line and get as many games as i could
at launch and i didn't care what kind of
game it was it was a fighting game a
shooter game a racing game an rpg
whatever it was
i would try to play as long as it was
known as like a release that was gonna
get some kind of a following
i would play it a lot of the times
because i was the youtuber who got
gameplay up of a game first
i would actually give exposure to a game
that it never normally wouldn't have
gotten
if it wasn't for me which was cool
people told me thousands of people would
tell me man i didn't know what this game
was and i went and bought it
because i saw your playthrough on launch
day and thanks so much for that okay
um but admittedly doing the offline
video recording
and no live streaming was a very
different life experience let's talk
first of all i was
a single back then i was a bachelor
living in a bachelor pad in connecticut
i didn't have life any
life responsibilities except going to
work during the day and then of course
when i lost my job in late 2010
and i became my job my full-time job to
do this now i had no responsibilities
but just recording all day
right um so it was just
complete free time at all times was free
time for me
um and so i would play every game and i
would record a ridiculous amount my
schedule was so messed up
i would basically play to the wee hours
in the morning
some days like drinking profusely being
i'm being honest with you guys i told
you about this that i
had a pass for substance abuse so i was
drinking way too much and some nights i
would just drink that's why you would
see those drunken videos that i would
put out on youtube drunken fallout 3 and
late night
drunken playthrough at release day and
stuff like that
okay um i would drink and play i would
upload go to sleep
over like sleep way into the afternoon
some days getting up at like one two in
the afternoon
and then immediately start playing games
play from games like two in the
afternoon until like seven at night
upload that footage go get fast food
wolf food down
get right back to playing so like eight
to like like
two in the morning i'm playing more and
put more footage out so maybe i would
play two games a day i'll get five hours
of gameplay of each game out right
and then within a week i beat them
because the games are what 10 15 hours
long so within two three days i've
beaten two games full playthroughs
bam on youtube go trade those [ __ ]
games in get half my money back
get new games wash rinse repeat all
right
but the content was very different
than how it was now first of all i had
no life
i didn't have a family nothing it was
just games games games games games that
was my lifestyle back then
very different from now and lesson much
less enjoyable let me tell you
um i had no interaction with my audience
the only interaction i had with you guys
was maybe a little bit on twitter or
reading comments on videos that was it
there was no social interaction and get
direct feedback about anything so i
never really knew how i was doing i had
to judge it based on youtube views
okay um
it was a very unhealthy lifestyle let's
be honest here you know the sleep
schedule was terrible i was drinking all
the time i was eating unhealthy food
constantly it was a
very very unhealthy schedule i wouldn't
i wouldn't be surprised
if the year of late 2010 when i first
started doing this for a job for a job
because i lost my office job
through like 2013 i was surprised that
those two to three years took
10 15 years off my life for the way that
i was living it was just not good
okay
it wasn't until i basically moved here
in 2014 that i kind of got my life back
together and honestly
it wasn't until kat moved in with me
that i finally got on a really better
schedule a more normal human [ __ ]
schedule
of not being up till the wee hours of
the morning right
and not not waking up late afternoons
it was i had to get back to a normal
life schedule and it took a while but
i did i'm back i'm back on a normal live
schedule now which is good
um but anyway getting back to derek's
question
i was just playing every game possible i
didn't care about the quality of the
playthrough it was just getting the play
throughout
so like i said i would rush through
games that have if you played them and
took your time
you could 20 hours and i'd beat them in
eight hours and put the play throughout
done next game that's how i took i
treated it and a lot of people back then
gave me very valid criticism
i said phil you turbo through games you
don't take your time at all so you miss
out
on most of the content and then you
actually have the balls to review the
game even though you didn't even play
entire modes
and those people were correct i was
rushing content out to be the first guy
on youtube to get it out so i could get
those cheap day one views and make the
money
and then move on to the next game it
wasn't about the quality of the play
through the enjoyment of the game it was
just about putting out the content
and over the years i have definitely
changed to now be more about having a
fun play look at this
look at my super mario galaxy play
through from eight years ago
versus this one now right
complete night and day now i took my
time i looked for every secret star
completed every challenge
saw every optional piece of content and
enjoyed the game thoroughly because i
took my time
back then it was rush rush rush bb see
it's just so different
and it's just so different and here's
the thing over the years things have
changed anyway even if i still wanted to
be mr day one views
i couldn't be because now sadly there is
this established group
of golden content creators people who
microsoft sony bethesda uh
activision uh you know the big companies
have rubber stamped
these are the big guys that they want to
be known as the people to promote their
games they are the not they're not gay
content creators like me they're not
gamers or content creators
they're influencers and those people
get the [ __ ] games early they play
them a week to two weeks early no one
else is allowed to do so
only them so they get to put gameplay
and content sometimes
entire players of these games up so
early there's no way a guy like me
who's just an honest guy not trying to
[ __ ] you know
do a paid advertisement but actually
play a game for what it is at face value
there's no way that i could hang in that
kind of content creation like i used to
it's just not possible the whole game
has changed from the ground up
the companies who make the games now
marketing departments that reach out to
the influencers
to give them the content first so they
will always be
the golden kids who get to put out the
content first while someone like me
who's busted his ass for 12 years
i have to just be just like you line up
and get the games just like you get them
digitally just like you
paying for everything that i do and i'm
okay with that
that's what i stand for but it was very
different 10 years ago when everyone was
on a level playing field
and there weren't these elitist selected
content creators and influencers who got
everything early
it was all about being the person to get
it first and put the content out
quality content right away but let's be
honest that doesn't really go in line
with my current philosophy anymore it
just doesn't
if i even were i was able to get the
games let launch today
or earlier than launch i wouldn't do
that kind of content that i did back
then i wouldn't rush out to play through
i'd be taking my time and doing
playthroughs that are interactive with
you guys so
it's still different you know i've
evolved over the years i wouldn't be
doing the kind of content that i did
back then but back then it was
whatever game was triple a and everyone
knows about it i gotta play i don't even
care what game it is or whatever and i'm
gonna rush through it get the play
through go to the next
that was my attitude back then very very
different from how i determined things
down now it's
gee would this be a game that number one
i'm going to enjoy
number two the viewing audience will
enjoy number three a game that will make
you make a good interactive play through
for streams there's all these factors
now
that i have to play in if i'm going to
play a jrpg is this going to be a jrpg
that i can beat
within two months or 10 months you see
fire emblem as much people wanted to see
it
not a great game for streaming just
being honest here too drawn out too
lengthy
and people lose interest i did it
because it was a viewers choice
playthrough but see i have to weigh and
balance these things now versus back
then it was just rushed through
everything who cares right
different attitude different situations
okay um the next question is from mooba
and this is a funny one all right this
one i just i got a laugh out of it
so i'm just gonna be honest here muba
asked the following question
what are your thoughts on the facts that
the tractors get less than a quarter of
viewers and contributions when they do
not stream content related to you
and he actually linked almighty tevin
streaming on youtube
playing a game for himself because i
wasn't streaming at the time playing a
game for himself
only has 150 viewers and no one's
contributing to his stream
okay now flip side of that tevin
restreams me
gets you know six seven eight hundred
viewers and people are tossing the money
left and right
right okay here's the truth
the content that they put out is
lampooning style content
it's content that is reliant on someone
like me to be putting out content
because they cannot do things for
themselves they are lamp
they are known as critiques early and
pruners they could not
put out original content that people
will want to watch
that's not what they do now i'm not
saying that there's not
any kind of entertainment value to
making fun of someone or lampooning
someone
what i'm saying is they're writing my
coattails if i don't exist they don't
exist
so that's why when we get people who are
trying to take me down
with false dmca claims and [ __ ] like
that i know
that's not them those guys rely on me to
be here consistently putting out content
so they have content to put out if i
don't exist they don't exist
i know they would never be the person to
try to hit me with a false dmca claim
and i would hope that their viewers
would also be smart enough to understand
that when you're trying to ruin my
business you're ruining things for
everyone not just me
but everyone around anything that i do
gets it ruined if i can't put out my
content anymore you know
um
but the the problem here is
where does that where does it end right
where's the extent of what it happens
and where does it end
could it be that someone who watches
that kind of negative lampooning style
content thinks that they should take it
upon themselves to end
me and end my pr my presence on the
internet because i'm an evil person
because someone tells them that much
every time that they lampoon me
i don't know i don't know who these
people are who the [ __ ] is the person
giving me the false dmca claims and the
fake the fake tips every day i don't
even know who they are
so i can't answer to that you know what
i mean like
i don't know these people they're crazy
in the head but anyway
what's my feeling on these people who
cannot put out entertainment content for
themselves but they rely on me
it's very simple their viewing audience
is my viewing audience
it's true tevin only exists because of
me
he never would have been known on the
internet if he never made fun of me all
right and
quite frankly it's nice that he has
entertainment value enough for his
viewership
that he makes money doing it fine but
understand that you only exist because
of me
so you better be [ __ ] grateful you
know and the thing is i've already said
outright i'm
never ever going to take down one of
those streams
you're never going to see me putting out
copyright claims against people
i don't play that game i'm not as stupid
as hell it's such semantics
to say that one thing's legal and one
thing's not you know i'm not gonna do
that [ __ ] so if you ever see oh
someone's stream got taken down by dark
side phil i didn't do that i've never
done that ever and i never will
all right but at the same time i would
hope that you understand that this whole
thing is a great joke right you're gonna
make fun of me it's a joke
you make money you should be grateful
that you're making money off of making
fun of me right
and don't take it too far when you make
personal insults about my family members
and about
things that go way too [ __ ] far past
the level of just the content i'm
putting out
that's when you've crossed the line
you've become a scumbag all right
so if you like that content because it
makes fun of me and the stupid things i
do on stream
fine fair enough but if you like that
content because someone takes personal
digs at my wife
or personal information about us that's
not public on the internet or not public
on our my streams but they dig it up
somewhere on the internet
and it's not for anyone's [ __ ]
business if you you're making fun of my
parents and [ __ ]
you're scum your literal scum and
everyone who's ever done that is scum
that's an immoral person who thinks that
anything's fair game
even people who aren't putting
themselves out there to be made fun of
you want to make fun of me go ahead
i put myself out here every single day
on my stream right but if you want to
start doing personal insults behind the
scenes to people that aren't involved
you're a piece of [ __ ] you are you're
just an immoral
worthless piece of garbage and this
planet would probably be better without
people like you
being honest people would be able to
actually just put out positive stuff and
not have toxic attacking individuals
being nasty
and doing [ __ ] up stuff to them behind
the scenes all the time alright
so understand that all right there's a
line and there's a limit to all of this
kind of content
um personally i know
that someone like kevin or these other
people who restream me will not be able
to put out original content they just
can't
they are a lampooner style of comedian
but that commit that comedy is valid i'm
not here to tell you that comedy isn't
valid there's people who do outside of
internet based stuff
you know it's perfectly valid but you
just can't take it to that next level
and i'll tell you kevin has taken it to
the next level many many times over the
years
because he's [ __ ] he's a hack in that
regard when if there's not something
going on on my stream
for him to make fun of directly because
i [ __ ] up or i did something stupid
he has to go to that lowest blow that
low common denominator because he's a
hack
there are people who out there who don't
have to do that and those are the people
who are truly talented at that kind of
comedy
okay but yeah it's hilarious these
people try to do their own crap no one
watches it no
no one is watching that stream for that
person they're watching it for that
person to make fun of me
if i didn't exist they don't exist
there you go um
snake fish gaming actually we're going
to do one more question and take a break
snake ridge gaming says phil what would
you say is your favorite genre of game
i enjoy when you're playing classic
final fantasy games and you really seem
to enjoy them
i love the streams and keep on keeping
on i would say
fighting games what i mean old school
style fighting games jrpgs
classic platformers and probably like
that more purest form of
fps game like around the unreal
tournament
early modern warfare era
those are the ones i like okay those are
my favorite genres i'm not saying i
don't like other genres of games
but sports puzzle racing
uh you know kind of third person shooter
and you know i would i would go for a
jrpg
a fight a traditional fighting game a
platformer
that kind of stuff i would go for before
those other types of games that's just
my personal preference
okay one shout out to shelby 701 with
100 cheers what's your opinion
about age of digital games and
subscription services it's gonna it's
bound to happen it's going to happen
um everything's going to go digital all
right you're going to have a slow
transition
right now i think this is the console
generation where it's going to happen
you're going to have people who are
going to
uh basically ditch the physical copies
but it's going to be a slow i mean we'll
talk about this because actually there's
a question about it
but people were finding that
actually when it came to ps5 pre-orders
way more people wanted to pre-order the
disk ps5 than the non-disk ps5
and if there was truly a purely digital
movement right now why would that be
especially because it's cheaper right um
i think people are still skeptical for
various reasons to abandon
physical media at this point but i
definitely see this console generation
being maybe the last
generation where people are going to be
putting out the physical disks the
logistics of it it's too expensive it
takes too long to get the disks out to
the stores there's a pain in the ass
and you don't need them there's no
reason to have a physical disc because
when you get that it's not even the real
game
that's an unfinished version of the game
because as soon as you pop it into your
console
it needs to download the day one patch
that makes it the complete version of
the game so there's no reason even
having the disc but i think people are
just slow
to adapt and change to it okay
okay it's time for our first break thank
you so oh by the way hold on i got 10
tip from fiddlegriddle who says do i
have children use this on dinner i don't
have any children
and i will use this for dinner
thank you for the 10 tips fiddle griddle
all right
so it's time for our first break for
those of you who are watching on twitch
um just stick around after about you
know 15 minutes
i'll take a quick 15 minute break to use
the restroom maybe grab a quick snack
and then i'll come back
for those of you who are watching on
youtube there'll be a separate part for
part two alright so thanks so far guys
i'll see you after the break